I vow to make you happy, to make you laugh, and to always be there for you. You are the first person I want to see in the morning and the last at night. I look forward to loving the smallest moments, like your eyes while you toss your hair. Spin a coin into a fountain and make a wish for us. You are my wish come true. You are my other half. You are the one that makes me laugh when I'm sad, makes me consider when I want to be rash, and finds me when I am lost. You are my guide, teacher, and one true love. I vow to make my life forever yours and build my dreams around you. I take thee to be my wife and promise to look into your eyes just like I do now, with love and soulful amazement. I can't wait to spend the rest of my life with you. I promise to be the man that I see now in your eyes, today, tomorrow, and for always. I promise to be there to catch you if you should stumble, carry you over every threshold, and fall in love with you every day. I will take your love to give me hope, give me joy, and make me a better man. I promise to listen, to hear, and to always consider your feelings and thoughts as we travel together on this journey. I vow to love, honor, and cherish you, forsaking all others, as a faithful husband as long as we both shall live. I promise to be your faithful husband. I promise to love you when the sun shines, when the rain falls, in sickness, and in health. When you look at this ring, think of me and remember that I love you always. I come here freely and without reservation to give myself to you and so that we may join your life and mine. I know I will not always be what you want me to be. I might forget to listen or forget to share. I might not always agree. I might be stubborn and I might be wrongheaded, but I will always love you. I will always strive to be the man you believe I can be. I can't promise to love you perfectly, but I will love you messily, overwhelmingly, inexorably. Without you I am nothing - with you I am more than myself. You are love more than any metaphor can ever try to express. There will never be two who love greater that you and I. I am so excited to spend the rest of our lives together. You are my favorite person, my lover, and my friend. I cherish you above all others. When I am with you everything else is moved into the background. You flood my senses. You are my life, my greatest gift, and my loving wife. I vow to always protect you from harm, to stand with you against your troubles, and look to you when I need protection. Here stands my friend, my beloved, and my true soul's companion. I give you the best of me, my heart, my soul, forever. With this ring I take thee to be my wife, I pledge my troth and enter into the holy bonds of matrimony. You look so beautiful to me today, but know that you always look beautiful to me and will always be this beautiful to me, tomorrow and the next day and the next. As gorgeous as you are right here and right now, I will only love you more and more each day. I promise to learn from you day by day in all things, with faithfulness and love. I vow that you shall be the most important person in my life, above all others, and that no one will ever stand between us. You are the woman with whom I choose to spend the rest of my life. Every hour of every day, I pledge to be living for you and for the family we build together. When you are thirsty I will offer you succor, when you are hungry I will give you sustenance, when you tire I will give you the endurance to continue, when you are joyous I will grant you my voice, all this I pledge to you. In Genesis it states, "Therefore shall a man leave his father and mother and cleave unto his wife," today you become my family, flesh of my flesh, blood of my blood, for all time and under God. You are the culmination of a dream come true. I can't believe I'm standing here about to start a wonderful life together with my best friend, my greatest miracle, and the person I love most in this world. We read in Proverbs, "Whoso findeth a wife findeth a good thing." It is in this discovery of what is truly good in all things that I find you, my darling, my beloved. I turn to God to support me in my desire to be a worthy husband of your love. I know that it is in His plan that we are meant to be together for all time. I _____ promise to honor you as my wife all the days of my life and to be honest and love with purity of spirit. "My Mistress' eyes are nothing like the sun..." says Shakespeare, "And yet, by heaven, I think my love as rare. As any she belied with false compare". He means that metaphors are all well and good, but the love we share by heaven and in front of God and our friends and family is rare and is as perfect as any who have ever loved. Shakespeare's sonnet 116 reads, "Let me not to the marriage of true minds Admit impediments. Love is not love Which alters when it alteration finds, Or bends with the remover to remove: O no; it is an ever-fixed mark, That looks on tempests, and is never shaken; It is the star to every wandering bark, Whose worth's unknown, although his height be taken. Love's not Time's fool, though rosy lips and cheeks Within his bending sickle's compass come; Love alters not with his brief hours and weeks, But bears it out even to the edge of doom. If this be error and upon me proved, I never writ, nor no man ever loved." "I will not vow to be noble or to live our lives in perfect harmony because there is no such thing nor should their be. We promise only to do our best and live out our lives. Dear God, that’s all we can promise in truth. Marry me - come and be my wife, And let us try before we die To make some sense of life. We're neither pure nor wise nor good; We'll do the best we know; We'll build our house, and chop our wood, And make our garden grow." - Candide Let us take this day to affirm our love. In front of all these people, let me say that I want you to be my wife, to be with me always, to love you with a fidelity that will never be broken. I want to be with you always. There is a song by Ed Ames that is a testament to my love. "Sometimes in the mornin' when shadows are deep I lie here beside you just watching you sleep And sometimes I whisper what I'm thinking of My cup runneth over with love Sometimes in the evening when you do not see I study the small things you do constantly I memorize moments that I'm fondest of My cup runneth over with love In only a moment we both will be old We won't even notice the world turning cold And so, in these moments with sunlight above My cup runneth over with love My cup runneth over with love With love" All our pleasure and all our pain, I will rejoice in and endure, and share with you - together as one. I love you and will lighten your burdens and add to your light. I invite you to take all of me, to come into my life and share all I have to offer. With kindness, fidelity, and trust, I am excited to build our lives together with a love that will grow each passing day whether we are faced with hardship or joy. I know you. I know you as my love who has always been and will always be. I name you my wife and cannot wait to continue our eternal loving journey. I humbly give you all that I am and pray that you take me as I am and will teach me to love you. I will be your willing pupil and your devoted servant, as long as we shall live. I pledge throughout our years together to be true to you, to never falter or disgrace you, to be your true love, and to kiss you on your hands in wedded bliss. I give you this ring with the pledge to be the best husband, man, and hopefully father that I can be, with trust, love, and devotion. I love you not only for what you are, but for what you make me - the best possible man I can be. Without you I am in darkness and with you I see only light. You are my true love. I promise not only to listen, but to hear, not only to be honest, but to trust, and not only to love but to be loved. Whatever happens in our lives together, every day that we are together will be the greatest day of my life. I am so in love with you. Our love is unique, because we are unique. Together we make something that has never been seen before. Together we make a force that holds the power to stand against any disaster, an engine of love the likes of which the world has never seen. Take my hand and as your husband I will begin our journey in honest and true devotion. I vow to put you before me in all things, and to live our story with love and fidelity for we become one in both body and spirit today. This bond is one that nothing can cleave in twain. Bring to me only your honest true self. I will bring to you what can, and with you as my wife I know we cannot fail to astonish the world with our love. They say: "A perfect marriage is just two imperfect people who refuse to give up on each other." I know I'm not perfect, but I will love you perfectly. I will never let you down or give up on you. I will cherish you forever. Come and be my wife and we will look leeward into the wind. At night I will wrap myself around you and our hearts will join beat by beat as we dream of the days to come. Take my hand. I vow to hold on tight. I vow to squeeze softly. I vow to kiss your hand. I vow to never let you go. What is a husband? I must admit, I'm not sure. All I know is that I am devoted to you completely and am made a better person because of your love. A husband then is a thing that a good marriage makes, molds, and creates whole. If that is what a husband means, then I am prepared to be yours. I love you secure in the knowledge that you are my best friend, my dearest, my kind and adoring wife. "I know That I am the luckiest. Next door there's an old man who lived to his nineties and one day passed away in his sleep. And his wife, she stayed for a couple of days, and passed away. I'm sorry I know that's a strange way to tell you that I know we belong, I know that I am the luckiest" - Ben Folds Five "The Luckiest" If I could I would lasso the moon for you - just like "It's a Wonderful Life" - I know that we will be happy together and I rejoice in making you my bride. There's no man in the world I would change places with today. I am so eager to be your husband. There is no place in the world I would rather be than here in front of our friends and family, pledging my love and devotion. I promise to try to be worthy of your love in every way, to climb mountains, and swim oceans just to be by your side. I will be honest, caring, patient and forgiving, and I will always be a loyal husband. Love is a transitive property. I stand here as your loving husband and proclaim my love in order to share with you, but also to share our love with our community of friends and family, to bring the world to a high water mark of love. To raise the threshold and say, "All are welcome to witness, all are welcome to love, all are welcome to our home, built on a bedrock of kindness our love." There are three truths I must admit. I love you as your husband is the first and the unifying principle of my life. That we are amazing together is two ñ that we two make a couple that can stand up to any challenge. Sharing this love with our friends and family is three. In plurality we are individuals, together and a part of our community, built on a foundation of our love. I love you, you are my best friend, as I give myself in marriage to you I promise to inspire you and to let you inspire me, not to hold back or to hold us back. To comfort you in times of sadness, to always love you, even when love is difficult or when love seems too easy. I give you myself today and all the days of my life. I promise to cherish and respect you, to stay true to you, to hold you at night and in the morning - to be your loving husband and be someone you can always look up to because your love made me that way. I cannot promise you all happiness, all perfection, all smiles or sunshine. I cannot promise you that I will always do what is right, never be angry, or never let clouds darken our door. I can promise you that we will be together whatever life will bring and that in anger or in darkness, I promise I will always be there - be present - and this ceremony, this ring, your face today, will return to me and I will love you then as I do today. Together we are two halves of one whole - I vow never to take you for granted - to always appreciate your love. To be earnest, honest, and forthright, to apologize when I am wrong and to be graceful, caring and devoted. I love you and look forward to spending our life together. I am so happy to be able to tell you - I do, I will, and I always will - whatever I have is yours. Let's run away together, let's run to our future, let's run down the path of love and family and friendship, let's run into each other's arms every night, never feeling cold. Let's run and be free together to love. "Because of you, I can feel myself slowly but surely becoming the me I have always dreamed of being." - Tyler Knott Gregson This ring is a promise that you will never have to face the world alone. I don't say you stole my heart, for I give it to you willingly without reservation. Take it and all I ask is that you take it with you wherever you may go. You are everything I've ever wanted. You are my dream, my once-in-a-lifetime. I am so excited to hold you forever. Forever with you simply will not be enough. Though our lives are intertwined, I promise to support your freedom - to trust and honor you and your decisions. My only promise is to be there for you whenever you need me - never to disappear or be distant, but to always be by your side. I will persevere when times get tough, and always treat you with compassion, never worrying about what might be fair, or the idea of what might make sense in my head, but knowing what is right in my heart. The miracle of our love is not in what happens today, but in the path we take together. Our friends and family join us here to wish us well on our journey and to celebrate the beginning of our passage. While things may change around us - we will be a nation of one - forever in love, together in all things. I promise to kiss your tears, to rub your shoulders, to raise your hand high, and to make everything into an adventure. I vow to dance with you - even when the music's over - to dance and dance and dance and hold you in my arms forever. I love you with every beat of my heart, every breath in my body, and my every thought and deed. I am the luckiest man alive - you are the bravest, most hilarious, most spectacular woman any man could ask for - and yet I am asking - will you be my wife? I will never let you forget how filled you are with the grace of God, the light of love, and the passion of our marriage. I will remind you because I will always remember, just by looking at you. With every glance you truly slay me - you do. There is no one in the world that I would rather take with me to do anything, from romantic trips around the world, to the drug store on the corner. You make everything an adventure, imbue everything with meaning, and give me goosebumps. I love you so much. It is said that love makes the impossible possible - and I know that is true - because it is impossible that a wonderful angel like you could come into my life and it is only love that makes it true. Though we are getting married today - I am already thinking about forever - a forever with you that is about mutual respect, support, and tenderness. Mignon McLaughlin said that: "A successful marriage requires falling in love many times, always with the same person." I can't wait to fall in love with you again and again - every day as long as we live. "Grow old along with me; the best is yet to be." - Robert Browning Mark Twain said that "To get the full value of joy you must have someone to divide it with." I love you and promise to get the fullness of joy by giving it to you. It was Aristotle who said, "Love is composed of a single soul inhabiting two bodies." We search all our lives for that soul that is our other half - with you I have found my other half - the one who completes me. "My heart is and always will be yours" - Sense and Sensibility by Jane Austen I promise to be open, to catch you with open arms, to join you with an open heart, to speak to you openly about anything, and to open my soul to you. You are my star - my Polaris - that guides me, shows me my best self, and allows me to take this journey of love. In the intricacies of everything there is a golden mean - a curl of the earth that is in every part of the known universe. This is you. You are my golden mean. You are a ratio of love to the universe, a feeling that is everywhere, in the rocks and in the trees and in all that is right and good in the world. I will cherish you all the days of my life. In you I see everything I want to be. You make me know that my dreams are possible. I love you and vow to do what I can to make your dreams come true. Lao Tzu, the master tactician had no defense for love - he said, "Love is the strongest of all the passions - it attacks simultaneously the head, the heart, and all the senses." I am defenseless against you and promise to always let you in - never have a guard up. I let you inside my gates and give myself willingly to you. "There is no remedy for love" says Thoreau, "but to love more". I plan to follow his sage advice and to seek my remedy in your arms. I adore you, I am crazy about you. I shout to the rooftops and I sing it to the hills. You give me everything I am and I vow to give you myself. We were given two hands and two eyes, but only one heart - to share with another - I vow to share my heart with you. Take my hand and we will get through life together.
“Today, [name], I join my life to yours, not merely as your husband, but as your friend, your lover, and your confidant. Let me be the shoulder you lean on, the rock on which you rest, the companion of your life. With you I will walk my path from this day forward.”

“In your eyes, I have found my home.
In your heart, I have found my love.
In your soul, I have found my mate.
With you, I am whole, full, alive.
You make me laugh. You let me cry.
You are my breath, my every heartbeat.”

“I pledge to listen to your advice, and occasionally take it.
I pledge to never keep score…even if I’m totally winning.
I pledge to always admire your huge, strong, kind, and determined heart.
I pledge that I will love you.”

“You know me better than anyone else in this world and somehow still you manage to love me. You are my best friend and one true love. There is still a part of me today that cannot believe that I’m the one who gets to marry you.”

“You look so beautiful to me today, but know that you always look beautiful to me and will always be this beautiful to me, tomorrow, and the next day and the next. As gorgeous as you are right here and right now, I will only love you more and more each day of our marriage.”

“I promise to be your faithful husband. I vow to love you when the sun shines, when the rain falls, in sickness, and in health, through good times and bad. When you look at this ring, think of me and remember that I love you always.”

“Our love is unique, because we are unique. Together we make something that has never been seen before. Together we make a force that holds the power to stand against any disaster, an engine of love the likes of which the world has never seen. Take my hand and as your husband I vow to begin our journey in honest and true devotion.”

“What is a husband? I must admit, I'm not sure. All I know is that I am devoted to you completely and am made a better person because of your love. A husband then is a thing that a good marriage makes, molds, and creates whole. If that is what a husband means, then I am prepared to be yours.”